README.md, before:

# MTKPI 
This is a fork of the original [MTKPI](https://github.com/r0binak/MTKPI).

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/r0binak/MTKPI/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Github Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/dab-solutions/MTKPI)](https://github.com/dab-solutions/MTKPI/stargazers)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/dab-solutions/MTKPI/pulls)
[![Docker Pulls MTKPI](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/dabsolutions/mtkpi?logo=docker)](https://hub.docker.com/r/dabsolutions/mtkpi)

![Logo](images/logo.jpg)

**MTKPI** – Multi Tool Kubernetes Pentest Image. This docker image contains all the most popular and necessary tools for Kubernetes penetration testing. Everything you need at your fingertips.

*Image was generated by [Kandinsky 2.2](https://www.sberbank.com/promo/kandinsky/)*

Disclaimer
-----

> [!WARNING]  
> **This is a tool for testing purpose only, do not use it for malicious acts. Some tools inside MTKPI can adversely affect the entire cluster, which in turn can lead to data corruption. Test environments with multiple nodes can be deployed with KIND**

## Motivation
When you're pentesting a Kubernetes cluster, you'll certainly use automated tools to perform the checks. But what if your cluster is network-limited and you can't download the tools you need inside the Pod? Or a read-only container file system? In this case, the only solution is to use a ready-to-use image, inside of which there are all the tools you need. This image includes all possible popular tools for pentesting a Kubernetes cluster, including those with automatic checks.

## Threat Matrix for Kubernetes
![Logo](images/matrix.png)
MTKPI covers most of the techniques described in Microsoft Threat Matrix for Kubernetes. This in turn provides a wide range of pentesting possibilities. If necessary, you can add the necessary tools to the image and increase the coverage of the matrix.

## What's inside?
### Shell via web
Often, when pentesting Kubernetes Cluster, you have a developer Service Account with limited permissions. In other words, you don't have sufficient permissions to run `pods/exec`, which means you just can't get inside the container. However, it's more common for developers to have rights to create `port-forward`. This is why I used [ttyd](https://github.com/tsl0922/ttyd) as the base image ― it is a simple command-line tool for sharing terminals over the web.
### Tools
For convenience, I also have made a list of all possible tools that can be useful when pentesting Kubernetes and packed it in an image:

- [botb](https://github.com/brompwnie/botb)
- [kubeletctl](https://github.com/cyberark/kubeletctl)
- [kubesploit agent](https://github.com/cyberark/kubesploit)
- [CDK](https://github.com/cdk-team/CDK)
- [peirates](https://github.com/inguardians/peirates)
- [traitor](https://github.com/liamg/traitor)
- [ctrsploit](https://github.com/ctrsploit/ctrsploit)
- [kdigger](https://github.com/quarkslab/kdigger)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
- [linuxprivchecker](https://github.com/sleventyeleven/linuxprivchecker)
- [deepce](https://github.com/stealthcopter/deepce)
- [helm](https://helm.sh)
- [kube-hunter](https://github.com/aquasecurity/kube-hunter)
- [kube-bench](https://github.com/aquasecurity/kube-bench)
- [DDexec](https://github.com/carlospolop/DDexec)
- [kubetcd](https://github.com/nccgroup/kubetcd)

### Bypass signature engine
Sometimes, runtime security tools are found in Kubernetes clusters that work on a signature-based approach. Security tools like Falco and Tracee are quite easy to bypass, as their behavior is predefined by rules and signatures. There are quite a few ways to do this, one of the simplest being to rename executables. This is the method used in MTKPI.

For example:

- `kubectl` → `k`
- `python3` → `pton3`
- `curl` → `kurl`
- `wget` → `vget`

You can read more about the ways to bypass Falco [here](https://github.com/blackberry/Falco-bypasses).

## Usage

For fast deployment, run the following command:
```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dab-solutions/MTKPI/main/deploy/mtkpi.yaml
```

It will create the pod and the service for you. Alternatively, you can manually run the followings:

Pod:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mtkpi-pod
  labels:
    app: mtkpi
spec:
  containers:
  - name: mtkpi-pod
    image: dabsolutions/mtkpi:v1.3
    ports:
    - containerPort: 7681
    securityContext:
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
```
Service:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: mtkpi-svc
  labels:
    app: mtkpi
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  ports:
  - port: 7681
    protocol: TCP
  selector:
    app: mtkpi
```

To access the container, just run the command:

```bash
kubectl port-forward mtkpi-pod 7681:7681
```

Open in your browser:

```
localhost:7681
```
![In action](/images/in-action.png)

## Contributing
If you liked this, I'd appreciate some PR 🙂

## References

* https://github.com/madhuakula/hacker-container
* https://github.com/antitree/cmd_and_kubectl_demos/tree/master/images/botty
* https://github.com/raesene/alpine-containertools

Commit message:

Add download script and update README (#7)
Co-authored-by: Davide Barbato <davide@dab.solutions>

README.md, after:

# MTKPI 
This is a fork of the original [MTKPI](https://github.com/r0binak/MTKPI).

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/r0binak/MTKPI/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Github Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/dab-solutions/MTKPI)](https://github.com/dab-solutions/MTKPI/stargazers)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/dab-solutions/MTKPI/pulls)
[![Docker Pulls MTKPI](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/dabsolutions/mtkpi?logo=docker)](https://hub.docker.com/r/dabsolutions/mtkpi)

![Logo](images/logo.jpg)

**MTKPI** – Multi Tool Kubernetes Pentest Image. This docker image contains all the most popular and necessary tools for Kubernetes penetration testing. Everything you need at your fingertips.

*Image was generated by [Kandinsky 2.2](https://www.sberbank.com/promo/kandinsky/)*

Disclaimer
-----

> [!WARNING]  
> **This is a tool for testing purpose only, do not use it for malicious acts. Some tools inside MTKPI can adversely affect the entire cluster, which in turn can lead to data corruption. Test environments with multiple nodes can be deployed with KIND**

## Motivation
When you're pentesting a Kubernetes cluster, you'll certainly use automated tools to perform the checks. But what if your cluster is network-limited and you can't download the tools you need inside the Pod? Or a read-only container file system? In this case, the only solution is to use a ready-to-use image, inside of which there are all the tools you need. This image includes all possible popular tools for pentesting a Kubernetes cluster, including those with automatic checks.

## Threat Matrix for Kubernetes
![Logo](images/matrix.png)
MTKPI covers most of the techniques described in Microsoft Threat Matrix for Kubernetes. This in turn provides a wide range of pentesting possibilities. If necessary, you can add the necessary tools to the image and increase the coverage of the matrix.

## What's inside?
### Shell via web
Often, when pentesting Kubernetes Cluster, you have a developer Service Account with limited permissions. In other words, you don't have sufficient permissions to run `pods/exec`, which means you just can't get inside the container. However, it's more common for developers to have rights to create `port-forward`. This is why I used [ttyd](https://github.com/tsl0922/ttyd) as the base image ― it is a simple command-line tool for sharing terminals over the web.
### Tools
For convenience, I also have made a list of all possible tools that can be useful when pentesting Kubernetes and packed it in an image:

- [botb](https://github.com/brompwnie/botb)
- [kubeletctl](https://github.com/cyberark/kubeletctl)
- [kubesploit agent](https://github.com/cyberark/kubesploit)
- [CDK](https://github.com/cdk-team/CDK)
- [peirates](https://github.com/inguardians/peirates)
- [traitor](https://github.com/liamg/traitor)
- [ctrsploit](https://github.com/ctrsploit/ctrsploit)
- [kdigger](https://github.com/quarkslab/kdigger)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
- [linuxprivchecker](https://github.com/sleventyeleven/linuxprivchecker)
- [deepce](https://github.com/stealthcopter/deepce)
- [helm](https://helm.sh)
- [kube-hunter](https://github.com/aquasecurity/kube-hunter)
- [kube-bench](https://github.com/aquasecurity/kube-bench)
- [DDexec](https://github.com/carlospolop/DDexec)
- [kubetcd](https://github.com/nccgroup/kubetcd)

### Bypass signature engine
Sometimes, runtime security tools are found in Kubernetes clusters that work on a signature-based approach. Security tools like Falco and Tracee are quite easy to bypass, as their behavior is predefined by rules and signatures. There are quite a few ways to do this, one of the simplest being to rename executables. This is the method used in MTKPI.

For example:

- `kubectl` → `k`
- `python3` → `pton3`
- `curl` → `kurl`
- `wget` → `vget`

You can read more about the ways to bypass Falco [here](https://github.com/blackberry/Falco-bypasses).

## Usage

For fast deployment, run the following command:
```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dab-solutions/MTKPI/main/deploy/mtkpi.yaml
```

It will create the pod and the service for you. Alternatively, you can manually run the followings:

Pod:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mtkpi-pod
  labels:
    app: mtkpi
spec:
  containers:
  - name: mtkpi-pod
    image: dabsolutions/mtkpi:v1.3
    ports:
    - containerPort: 7681
    securityContext:
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
```
Service:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: mtkpi-svc
  labels:
    app: mtkpi
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  ports:
  - port: 7681
    protocol: TCP
  selector:
    app: mtkpi
```

To access the container, just run the command:

```bash
kubectl port-forward mtkpi-pod 7681:7681
```

Open in your browser:

```
localhost:7681
```
![In action](/images/in-action.png)

## Local run
If you wish to have all the aforementioned tools into a container you got a shell to (.i.e. as a result of an app compromise), instead of manually download them you can use `download.sh`.

```bash
kubectl cp download.sh <container_id>:/tmp -n <namespace>
kubectl exec --stdin --tty <container_id> -n <namespace> -- sh -c 'cd /tmp && bash'
/tmp $ chmod +x download.sh && ./download.sh
```

## Contributing
If you liked this, I'd appreciate some PR 🙂

## References

* https://github.com/madhuakula/hacker-container
* https://github.com/antitree/cmd_and_kubectl_demos/tree/master/images/botty
* https://github.com/raesene/alpine-containertools
